The Jerusalem channel is made with the support of you, our viewers.
Thank you for watching.
Messiah's Two Advent said His first coming, Jesus fulfilled hundreds of ancient prophecies with perfect precision.
He was uniquely born of a virgin in Bethlehem just as foretold centuries earlier in the Hebrew Bible.
He suffered and died for our sins.
He was punished for our transgressions
or according to Isaiah 53.
His hands and feet were pierced according to Psalm 22, yet as the Passover Lamb of God, no bone of his body was broken.
He rose from the dead on the third day, conquering death and offering eternal life to all who believe on him.
These were the prophecies of a humble Messiah who came to bear our griefs and carry our sorrows, fulfilled exactly in Bethlehem's manger on Jerusalem's cross and empty tomb.
However, not all Bible prophecies about Messiah were completed to millennia ago.
The Scripture speak of a second coming when Jesus will return in glory.
Soon He will descend on the clouds and every eye will see Him to rule the nations with justice and to fulfill all remaining prophecies about King Messiah.
He will establish the Peaceable Kingdom where the wolf will lie down with the lamb.
All the puzzle pieces are coming together in our lifetime
And in this broadcast, I hope to assemble the pieces together for you.
Shalom, I'm Christine Dart.
The first coming of Messiah was veiled in mystery.
The hymn writer Charles Wesley got it right in the famous Christmas carol, Heart the Herald Angels Sing.
in that Carol Charles Wesley celebrated the Lord's incarnation, God becoming flesh, Emmanuel, meaning God with us, veiled in flesh the Godhead sea, hail the incarnate deity.
Yes, when the son of God was incarnated in the Virgin's womb, his glory and majesty were obscured by human flesh.
However, the next time he comes, the Lord's glory and identity will be unveiled for all the world to see.
at his first coming in plain view were his humility and humanity.
But soon the whole world will see his eternal great glory.
That's why it's such a blessing to read the book of Revelation, which is described as the apocalypse, literally meaning the unveiling of Messiah, a full picture of who he really is.
The first time the Lord came to earth, his advent was marked by a single bright star.
which many theologians believe was a manifestation of the Shekana glory of God.
However, the next time he comes, the full glory of God will shine like glorious lightning, filling the entire atmosphere.
The first time Jesus came, he condescended as a helpless baby.
The second time, he will appear suddenly as the sovereign king and judge over all nations.
The first time he came, there was no room for him in Bethlehem's end.
and he was born at the lowest level of humility and a stable and laid in a manger.
Those were the mysterious ways of God.
The first time he came, just a few shepherds and wise men recognized him and welcomed him.
The next time he comes, every eye will see him and every knee will bow.
The same Jesus who first came and humbled tenderness will return in awesome power.
His first coming brought salvation.
His second coming will bring judgment and restoration to Israel.
Since Jesus, Yeshua is His Hebrew name, fulfilled every detail of His first advent, we can trust God's plan that He will fulfill to the letter all the remaining messianic prophecies in the Bible.
No one knows the day or hour that He will return, but He warned, watch and be ready.
As believers, we must live repentant and faithful lives.
It's our duty to share the gospel, love others, while looking up
because our redemption draws near.
Amen.
Now we want to take you on a deeper journey into the heart of the story of Messiah's miraculous birth.
It's a saga that needs to be told over and over again.
His humble birth in a stable, which some scholars believe was a suka.
That's a tabernacle during the feast of tabernacles.
The temple shepherds in David's field swaddled lambs to prepare sacrifice.
And that was the sign they were to look for a baby.
In swaddling clothes, God's sacrifice lying in a manger.
The wise men from afar who brought gifts had been prepared generations earlier by the prophet Daniel.
Beneath these familiar scenes lies a layer of profound mystery, a prophetic puzzle that reveals God's divine orchestration.
Centuries before that silent night in Bethlehem, prophets and ancient Israel spoke words that seemed enigmatic, often disjointed
They painted pictures of a coming Messiah, a deliverer who would change the world.
Those prophecies weren't vague horoscopes.
They were specific detailed predictions about places, events, and characteristics that would mark this promise Savior.
In the Gospels, particularly in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke, we see how these ancient prophecies snapped together like puzzle pieces, forming a clear image of Jesus as the fulfillment of God's promises.
We'll explore the core puzzle prophetic pieces, the prophecies tying Jesus to Bethlehem, to Egypt, Nazareth, and even the weeping of the Hebrew matriarch Rachel in Rama.
But we'll go further, expanding on the rich imagery of Isaiah's branch prophecy that underpins the Nazarene connection.
And we're going to weave in other key prophecies that illuminate the bigger picture.
These would include the virgin birth, the child called Emmanuel,
the royal titles of Wonderful Counselor and Prince of Peace, and even hints of the Bethlehem Star, the Wiseman's gifts, and the Sherper's role in the Hebrew Bible.
By the end, I hope you'll see Messiah's birth not just as a cozy or commercial holiday, but as a testament to God's faithfulness and divine orchestration of minute details across millennia.
So let's begin with the foundational pictures and build from there.
First, let's set the stage with some historical content.
The Hebrew prophets lived in turbulent times.
Israel and Judah faced invasions, exiles, and internal strife.
The prophets, like Micah, Hosea, Jeremiah, and Isaiah, were not fortune tellers.
They were God's messengers, calling people to repentance, while offering hope of restoration through a future king from David's dynasty.
Their words, preserved in Scripture, spanned from around 750 BC to 500 BC,
Long before the Roman Empire are the birth of Messiah.
Now the first puzzle piece, the Messiah was destined to be born in only one place, Bethlehem, the prophet Micah, writing about 700 B.C.
during a time when Assyria threatened Judah, declared this prediction in Micah 5, too.
You, Bethlehem Ephrata, though you were small among the clans of Judah, out of you will come one who will be ruler over Israel, whose origins are from of old,
from ancient times.
Now notice the details.
The birthplace would be Bethlehem Ephrata to distinguish that town from another Bethlehem.
It's a village about five miles south of Jerusalem known primarily as the birthplace of King David, Israel's greatest king.
Micah predicted that from this humble spot, not from Jerusalem, not from an opulent palace, but from Bethlehem would come a ruler whose roots stretch back to eternity from ancient times.
This prophecy lets us know that the Messiah won't be just a king.
He will be someone divine, someone eternal.
And why bevel him?
The prediction ties into God's promise to David in 2 Samuel 7, where God vows that David's throne will endure forever.
You see, the Messiah had to come from David's line and from his town to fulfill this covenant.
Now let's fast forward seven centuries.
The Roman emperor Caesar Augustus
issued a decree for a census requiring everyone to register in their ancestral towns.
The stepfather and guardian of Jesus was Joseph, a carpenter living in Nazareth who was a descendant of David.
Therefore, in God's sovereignty, Joseph was obligated to travel to Bethlehem for the census.
Mary, his betrothed wife, accompanied him because she too was a descendant of King David.
Luke 2, 7 describes the scene vividly.
While they were there in Bethlehem, Mary brought forth her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger because there was no room for them in the end.
In that moment, Micah's prophecy clicked into place.
Jesus was born in Bethlehem, not by accident, but through the movements of an empire's senses and God's sovereignty.
God used to pay an emperor's bureaucracy to position his son exactly where the prophets said he had to be born.
It's a reminder that history is his story, but there are more prophetic pieces to the puzzle.
The birth draws attention, but not all of it was benevolent.
Enter the wise men or magi from the east, likely astrologers or scholars from Persia or Babylon.
The prophet Daniel, who had been elevated to chief over the magi in the Babylonian and Persian courts, had profoundly influenced this class of astronomers by introducing them to Hebrew scriptures and monotheism
during his decades of service under multiple kings.
As head of the wise men, he likely shared his writings and teachings, including the precise Messianic prophecy in Daniel chapter 9 that foretold the timing of the anointed ones arrival and death calculated from the decree to rebuild Jerusalem.
This knowledge preserved and passed down through generations of Persian Magi, equipped them to anticipate the Messiah's birth in Judea.
And when they observed the extraordinary star, they interpreted it as the fulfillment of other ancient prophecies, such as numbers 24 17, for telling a star coming out of Jacob, combined with Daniel's timeline, prompting their journey to worship the newborn king of the Jews.
Daniel's leadership in prophetic revelations bridge centuries, preparing these Gentile seekers to recognize and honor Messiah.
So the wise men followed a star to Jerusalem, where they inquired,
Where is the one who's been born king of the Jews?
We saw his star and we've come to worship him."
While this news alarmed King Herod, who was a paranoid ruler, appointed by Rome.
Herod summoned his religious experts to inquire, where is Messiah to be born?
And of course they replied with Micah 5-2 pinpointing Bethlehem.
Well, Herod feigned entrance, sending the Magi ahead with instructions to report back
But his heart, fearing a rival, was dark.
The wise men find Jesus, offer him gifts, but being warned in a dream, they bypassed Herod on their return.
In rage, Herod ordered the slaughter of all boys under two years of age in Bethlehem in vicinity, hoping to eliminate the threat of a rival.
This horrific event, known as the massacre of the innocents, brings us to two intertwined prophecies that form our next puzzle pieces.
First, Jeremiah's prophecy of the Hebrew matriarch, Rachel Weeping.
Jeremiah prophesying around 600 B.C.
during battle on siege of Judah, wrote in Jeremiah 31.15, a voice is heard in Rama, mourning and great weeping, Rachel weeping for her children, and she refused to be comforted because they are no more.
Rachel was the patriarch Jacob's beloved wife, mother to Joseph in Benjamin.
She died giving birth to Benjamin near Bethlehem and was buried by the road.
Her tomb is there to this day.
In Jeremiah's time, Rama was a gathering point for exiles who were being marched to Babylon.
So Rachel's weeping symbolized the nation's grief over shattered families.
And in Matthew chapter two, this prophecy finds tragic fulfillment.
The mothers of Bethlehem wailed for their murdered sons, echoing Rachel's ancient sorrow.
It's a stark contrast to Christmas joy, the shadow of evil opposing God's light.
But it was also a fulfillment in the prophecy that Jesus would be a prophet like unto Moses.
Because at the birth of Moses in Egypt, Hebrew baby boys were also killed by Pharaoh.
Yet hope glimmers as the Holy Family escaped before the Bethlehem massacre.
The next puzzle piece, how is it that Jesus was born in Bethlehem
Yet God said prophetically via the prophet Hosea that he would call his son out of Egypt.
Well, an angel had warned Joseph in a dream urging him instantly to get up, take the child and his mother and escape to Egypt.
The angel also said, stay there until I tell you because Herod is going to search for the child to kill him.
So the Holy family fled by night and they became refugees in Egypt.
likely in Alexandria or other Jewish communities that existed at that time in Egypt.
This situation fulfilled Hosea 11-1, written around 750 BC.
When Israel was a child, God said, I loved him, and out of Egypt, I called my son.
Hosea originally referred to the Exodus.
God calling Israel his son out of Egyptian bondage.
Jesus recapitulates Israel's history.
as Israel was enslaved in Egypt and delivered.
So Jesus fled to Egypt and was called back to the land of Israel.
After Herod's death, the angel returns and tells Joseph to get up, take the child and his mother and go to the land of Israel for those who are trying to take the child's life are now dead.
By the way, I hope you noted that Joseph was told to return where to the land of Israel.
That's what the Bible calls it, the land of Israel and Judah, not Palestine.
Palestine was a word later imposed upon Judea in the land of Israel by the Romans to taunt the Jews.
So Joseph, Mary, and Jesus head back to Israel, but learning that Israel's brutal son, Archilaeus, ruled Judea at that time.
Joseph fared settling there in another dream.
He was directed to take them north to Galilee, to Nazareth, a backwater village, home to perhaps only 500 persons at the time, overlooked and unremarkable.
Yet Nazareth would be a safe haven for Jesus to grow up protected and unnoticed until the time of his public ministry.
So was fulfilled what was said through the prophets.
He will be called a Nazarene.
That's our fourth piece and it's intriguing because there's no direct quote in the Hebrew Bible saying Nazarene.
Instead, it's a play on words from multiple prophets, especially Isaiah.
Let's expand on this as it's a rich vein of prophecy.
The key prophecy is Isaiah's branch imagery prophesying from about 740 to 680 BC during a serious threat.
Isaiah used branch or shoot to describe Messiah.
Isaiah 11 one states a shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse from his roots.
A branch will bear fruit.
Jesse was David's father.
So the stump of Jesse represents David's royal line that had been cut down by exile and foreign rule.
From this dead stump sprouts a new shoot, a fresh start, a righteous king.
The Hebrew word for branch here is netzer.
Sound familiar?
The town Nazareth in Hebrew derives from netzer, meaning branch or shoot.
Living in Nazareth means Jesus the nesserine, the branch man.
But
Isaiah elaborates Isaiah 11 verses two to five describes this branch the spirit of the Lord will rest on him the spirit of wisdom and understanding the spirit of counsel and of might the spirit of knowledge and fear of the Lord and he will delight in the fear of the Lord he will not judge by what he sees with his eyes or decide what he hears with his ears but with righteousness he will judge the needy with justice he will give decisions for the poor of the earth he will strike the earth
with the rod of his mouth, with the breath of his lips he will slay the wicked.
Righteousness will be his belt and faithfulness and sash around his waist.
This branch brings justice, peace, and restoration.
Isaiah 11 verses 6 to 9 paint a paradise under his rule.
The wolf will live in the lamb, the leopard will lie down with a goat.
They will neither harm nor destroy on all my holy mountain, for the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord
as the waters cover the sea.
Jesus as the Nazarene, the branch, embodies all of this.
His ministry shows wisdom, justice for the poor, and ultimate peace to his death and resurrection.
But the prophet Isaiah has more branch references.
Isaiah 42 declares, in that day the branch of the Lord will be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the land will be the pride and glory of the survivors in Israel.
Here the branch is divine
linking to Micah's eternal rule.
And in Isaiah 53 2, part of the suffering servant passage we read, he grew up before him like a tender chute and like a root out of dry ground.
He had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him.
There was nothing in his appearance that we should desire him.
This chute refers to Netzer foretelling humility.
Nazareth fits as a despised place.
As the disciple Nathaniel later said in John 1.46, can anything good come out of Nazareth?
The Bible predicted the Messiah would be despised and rejected in Isaiah 53.
Being a Nazarene carried a stigma.
It was a rural place, Galilean, far from Jerusalem's elite.
So the Nazarene label fulfilled multiple layers.
The linguistic netzer from Isaiah 11, the humble origins from Isaiah 53,
and the rejection theme throughout the prophets.
Now let's assemble these four pieces and remarkably as diverse as they are, Bethlehem, Rama, Egypt, and Nazareth.
They all belong to Jesus.
What are the mathematical chances that any other prophet than Jesus could have fulfilled all of these prophecies in a single lifetime?
God used dreams, tyrants, and travels to weave all of this together.
But the prophetic tapestry is even broader.
Let's explore some other prophecies that enrich this puzzle picture.
One of the most famous is the Virgin Birth from Isaiah 714.
Isaiah spoke to King Ahaz of Judah, who faced invasion.
God offered a sign.
Ahaz refused.
Therefore, Isaiah declared, the Lord himself will give you a sign.
The Virgin will conceive and give birth to a son.
Virgin, the word in Hebrew is Alma,
means a young woman of marriageable age, often implying virginity.
But the Septuagint Greek translation uses the specific word Parthenos, clearly a virgin without a doubt.
Matthew 123 sees ultimate fulfillment in Jesus.
He wrote, all this took place to fulfill what the Lord said through the prophet.
The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel.
a Hebrew word which means God with us.
Mary, a virgin, engaged to Joseph, conceived by the Holy Spirit.
This miracle underscores Jesus's divinity.
God is with us, not merely a human king.
Linked to this is Isaiah 9, verses 67, stating, poor to us, a child is born, to us, the son is given, and the government shall be on his shoulders.
And he will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting father,
Prince of Peace.
The angel's message in Shepherd's Fields, Peace on Earth, echoes Isaiah's Prince of Peace.
These royal titles elevate Bethlehem's child beyond earthly rulers.
Of the greatness of his government and peace, there will be no end.
He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever.
You see, Jesus' birth announces this kingdom of peace, beginning in a manger, but culminating in eternity.
Another prophecy hints at the Weizmann star.
Numbers 24-17 said, a star will come out of Jacob.
A scepter will rise out of Israel.
The magi saw a star rising, linking to this prophecy.
Some scholars suggest the star was a conjunction of planets or a supernova, but prophetically, it's the Messiah's sign.
some sort of Shekinah glory.
The wise man's gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh echoes Psalm 7211, which is a prayer.
May all kings bow down to him and all nations serve him."
And Isaiah 60 verse 6 is also a picture of the wise man coming saying, herds of camels will cover your land and all from Sheba will come bearing gold and incense and proclaiming the praise of the Lord.
gold for a king, frankincense for deity, used in temple worship, and myrrh for suffering, used in burial.
These prophetic gifts foreshadow the various rules of Jesus as king, god, and sacrifice.
Even the shepherds tie into prophecy.
Micah 5 verses 4 to 5, following the Bethlehem prophecy, declares, he will stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, and he will be our peace.
Jesus is the good shepherd, announced first to literal shepherds.
Ezekiel 34, 23 promises, I will place over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he will tend them.
Other important prophecies abound.
Genesis 49, 10, predicted the scepter will not depart from Judah, and Jesus descends from the tribe of Judah.
Most importantly, the timing of Messiah's arrival was given
in Daniel chapter nine, verses 25 to 26, which predicted the Messiah's coming after 69 biblical sevens from the decree to rebuild Jerusalem.
That calculated to be 483 years aligning with the life and times of Jesus.
All of these prophecies interlock, the Virgin Born Emmanuel, the branch from Jesse, the Bethlehem ruler, the sun called out of Egypt, the Nazarene, all in one person.
Reflect with me for a moment.
Skeptics might say these prophecies were coincidences or somehow they were retrofitted.
But consider the odds, specific places, events, characteristics, fulfilled altogether in one person associated with all of the locales I've mentioned.
It's improbable without divine intervention.
The Gospel writers Matthew and Luke did not invent all of this.
They reported history through prophetic lenses.
Early Christians, facing persecution, staked their faith on these prophetic fulfillments.
And today, our busy holidays, these prophecies remind us that Messiah's birth is rooted in truth, not myth, but history prophesied and realized.
As lights twinkle and carols play, ponder the puzzle thoroughly.
God spoke through prophets, then acted in history.
Jesus was Bethlehem's baby, Egypt's refugee,
and Nazareth's branch.
He is the centerpiece of history.
He is the reason for this season and wise men still seek him.
Each of us is an innkeeper who decides if there's room in our hearts for him.
He invites us into the puzzle picture, offering peace, salvation and healing.
So no matter how chaotic, deceptive and dangerous the world is becoming, from my heart to yours, the most important question is,
Are you ready for the soon and sudden second appearing of the Lord?
That is our blessed hope.
Amen.
Meanwhile, we'd love to hear from you on social media or through our free Jerusalem channel, mobile app.
Please follow our articles at substack.com and all our videos at our Jerusalem channel, YouTube platform, as well as our website, exploits.tv, where you have the opportunity to support our work financially.
And finally at our website, Contact Page, we invite you to sign up for our weekly email alert called exploits based upon Daniel 1132, declaring the people who know their God will be strong, not weak, and we're going to accomplish biblical exploits, the works of the Lord, in the remaining time before His imminent return.
Meanwhile, let's keep contending for the faith and praying prophetically for the peace of Jerusalem.
I'm Christine Dark, Shalom and Maranatha.